For as long as I can remember, I have been fascinated by computers. As a kid, I would wake up at 6 AM on weekends to play Diablo II and have to be threatened with groundings to go outside. Around the same time, I would also fail miserably at trying to play Warcraft III competitively and ultimately settle on having fun with custom games like tower defense.

In high school, I found a talent for chemistry and, combined with a proclivity for problem solving, decided to pursue a degree in chemical engineering. At Northeastern University, I had the opportunity to set myself on a five-year track that had me working at three different internships in six-month stints. My poor experience working in industry combined with a lack of interest and proficiency in upper-level courses led me to question my choices entirely. Going to college in a major city broadened my horizons in so many ways and I was unpleasantly surprised that many careers in chemical engineering would land me very far away from any population centers.

After graduating I decided that I was going to move to San Francisco (without a job lined up) and try to land some sort of gig at a tech start-up. I figured that one of these companies would see the merit of having majored in an engineering discipline combined with work experience and take a gamble on me. Shouldn't be too bad, right? Not so much. A few days before I was going to throw in the towel and move back home, I landed a job as an environmental engineer. To put it bluntly, I worked insane hours doing grunt work that was hard on my body and made me very little money in the process. I saw my peers making great money at tech companies in various capacities and actually developed a resentment for software engineers. Here I was, a new grad with a reputable degree, struggling to make the minimum payments on my student loans and likely shortening my life span to make it all happen. I was miserable and work affected my personal life in a way that I didn't know how to control.

Eventually, I wisened up and joined a biotech "start-up" (I was employee number ~450, but profitability was nowhere in sight and it was still private). I loved all of my coworkers and genuinely looked forward going into work every day. The initial allure wore off shortly after I switched departments and there was less of a team around me while I worked. I was far better off here than at my first gig, but I still felt unfulfilled. The field of fermentation is so incredibly vast and I was nowhere close to maxing out on knowledge but I could never motivate myself to try to get to the next level. I was ready to settle on a career that was good enough and allowed me to pay my bills, even if I didn't have much to show for it afterward.

In March 2020, COVID hit and life as everyone knew it changed. I found myself working from home with a job description that required me to physically be at work in a lab setting. I very quickly ran out of work to do and decided that I could either try to force myself to love the academic side of fermentation or spend my time learning something new. A few of my friends were trying their hand at programming in Python via a course on Udemy, so I decided to give it a shot. I very quickly went from learning Python to thinking about how my job could involve coding in Python and constantly thinking about how I could improve. Perhaps something positive was to come from a global pandemic after all.

Sometime in Spring 2021, shortly after a botched IPO, I learned that my job was in peril and that layoffs were impending. I had spent the last year or so building Jupyter notebook tools for processing raw data streams from lab equipment but ultimately my job duties limited my time to spend on my new passion. If I was to have an opportunity to switch careers, this would be it - but I had nothing to show for my journey thus far. What followed was a boost of motivation that I had never experienced before in my life and I struggled to do anything but think about my portfolio project. My sleep suffered, my social life suffered, and probably my relationship suffered (though my then-fiance knew something special was in the works), but I really didn't care as long as I could continue on with my passion project. Tragedy struck in the Summer 2021 and I was impacted by layoffs. Fortunately, I received a job offer the very next day for the opporunity that would allow me to break into the field. My hard work paid off!

So, there are many morals to the story here. The main takeaways I would like to highlight are:

1. It's easy to settle and convince yourself that you have peaked. Don't be afraid to take a risk and try something new.
2. Jealousy (in this case, of the life that software engineeringenabled for many of my peers) can blind you to opportunities that you hadn't even dreamed of. Try broadening your horizons when you're feeling stuck and the next opportunity might surprise you.
3. Sometimes you have to learn what you don't like to hone in on what you do like. This isn't always the case, but when it's your reality, it can be easy to get discouraged. It sounds like a cliche, but there are lessons to be learned in everything you do that may eventually lead you to your destiny.
4. Not much in life is linear, and it's often not very realistic to expect that your career will be. Embrace the chaos, enjoy the journey as much as possible, and something will eventually shake out.

Thanks for reading - I hope this resonates with you or inspires you to keep on pushing toward a greater state of fulfillment.
